add tutorial for conversational search (#2075)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/conversational_search/conversational_search_with_Cohere_Command.md

# Topic

> This tutorial explains how to use conversational search with Cohere Command model. Read this doc [Conversational search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/conversational-search/) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial explains how to use conversational search with the Cohere Command model. For more information, see [Conversational search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/conversational-search/).
```

> Note: You should replace the placeholders with prefix `your_` with your own value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Replace the placeholders that start with `your_` with your own values.
```

# Steps

## 0. Preparation

> 1. Enable conversational search and memory feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable conversational search and memory features:
```

```
PUT _cluster/settings
{
    "persistent": {

>         "plugins.ml_commons.memory_feature_enabled": true,

Reviewer 2: Just reminder this can be removed after changing the default value to true.

Author: correct

        "plugins.ml_commons.rag_pipeline_feature_enabled": true
    }
}
```

> 2. Ingest test data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Ingest test data:
```

{"text": "Chart and table of population level and growth rate for the Austin metro area from 1950 to 2023. United Nations population projections are also included through the year 2035.\\nThe current metro area population of Austin in 2023 is 2,228,000, a 2.39% increase from 2022.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2022 was 2,176,000, a 2.79% increase from 2021.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2021 was 2,117,000, a 3.12% increase from 2020.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2020 was 2,053,000, a 3.43% increase from 2019."}
{"index": {"_index": "qa_demo", "_id": "6"}}
{"text": "Chart and table of population level and growth rate for the Seattle metro area from 1950 to 2023. United Nations population projections are also included through the year 2035.\\nThe current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000, a 0.86% increase from 2022.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2022 was 3,489,000, a 0.81% increase from 2021.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2021 was 3,461,000, a 0.82% increase from 2020.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2020 was 3,433,000, a 0.79% increase from 2019."}

```

## 1. Create connector and model

> 1. Create connector for Cohere Command model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create connector for Cohere Command model:
```

> Conversational search has some limitation now. It only supports [OpenAI](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/open_ai_connector_chat_blueprint.md) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limitation: Conversational search only supports [OpenAI](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/open_ai_connector_chat_blueprint.md) 
```

and [Bedrock Claude](https://github.com/opensearch-project/ml-commons/blob/2.x/docs/remote_inference_blueprints/bedrock_connector_anthropic_claude_blueprint.md) style of input/output.

> Here we follow the Bedrock Claude model style of input/output by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial follows the Bedrock Claude model style of input/output by:
```

> - Mapping Cohere command model input parameters `message` to parameter `inputs` to match Cohere Claude model style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Mapping the Cohere Command input parameter `message` to parameter `inputs` to match Cohere Claude model style.
```

> - Use post process function to transform Cohere command model output to Claude model style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using a post-processing function to transform Cohere Command model output to Claude model style.
```

            },
            "request_body": "{ \"message\": \"${parameters.inputs}\", \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\" }",
            "post_process_function": "\n    String escape(def input) { \n      if (input.contains(\"\\\\\")) {\n        input = input.replace(\"\\\\\", \"\\\\\\\\\");\n      }\n      if (input.contains(\"\\\"\")) {\n        input = input.replace(\"\\\"\", \"\\\\\\\"\");\n      }\n      if (input.contains('\r')) {\n        input = input = input.replace('\r', '\\\\r');\n      }\n      if (input.contains(\"\\\\t\")) {\n        input = input.replace(\"\\\\t\", \"\\\\\\\\\\\\t\");\n      }\n      if (input.contains('\n')) {\n        input = input.replace('\n', '\\\\n');\n      }\n      if (input.contains('\b')) {\n        input = input.replace('\b', '\\\\b');\n      }\n      if (input.contains('\f')) {\n        input = input.replace('\f', '\\\\f');\n      }\n      return input;\n    }\n    def name = 'response';\n    def result = params.text;\n    def json = '{ \"name\": \"' + name + '\",' +\n          '\"dataAsMap\": { \"completion\":  \"' + escape(result) +\n          '\"}}';\n    return json;\n   \n    "
        }
    ]
}
```

> `escape` function added as default function in 2.12, so you use it in `post_process_function` directly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `escape` function was added as a default function in 2.12, so you can use it in  the `post_process_function` directly:
```

```
"post_process_function": "    \n    def name = 'response';\n    def result = params.text;\n    def json = '{ \"name\": \"' + name + '\",' +\n                 '\"dataAsMap\": { \"completion\":  \"' + escape(result) +\n               '\"}}';\n    return json;"
```

> Copy the connector id from response, will use it to create model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the connector ID; you will use it to create the model.
```

> 2. Create model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Cohere command model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "Cohere command model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```

> Copy the model id from response, it will be used in following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the model ID; you will use it in the following steps.
```

> 3. Predict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Test the model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "inputs": "What is the weather like in Seattle?"
  }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```

Located in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States, Seattle experiences a maritime climate with cool, dry summers and mild, wet winters. While it is best known for its rainy days, Seattle's annual rainfall is actually less than New York City and Boston. 

Would you like me to provide more details on Seattle's weather?  Or, if you have a specific date or location in mind, I can try to retrieve real-time or historical weather information for you."""
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

## 2. Conversational search

### 2.1 Create pipeline
```
PUT /_search/pipeline/my-conversation-search-pipeline-cohere
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "retrieval_augmented_generation": {
        "tag": "Demo pipeline",
        "description": "Demo pipeline Using Cohere",
        "model_id": "your_model_id_created_in_step1",
        "context_field_list": [
          "text"
        ],
        "system_prompt": "You are a helpful assistant",
        "user_instructions": "Generate a concise and informative answer in less than 100 words for the given question"
      }
    }
  ]
}

```

### 2.2 Search

> Conversational search has some 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversational search has some extra parameters you specify in `generative_qa_parameters`:
```

```
GET /qa_demo/_search?search_pipeline=my-conversation-search-pipeline-cohere
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "text": "What's the population increase of New York City from 2021 to 2023?"
    }
  },
  "size": 1,
  "_source": [
    "text"
  ],
  "ext": {
    "generative_qa_parameters": {
      "llm_model": "bedrock/claude",
      "llm_question": "What's the population increase of New York City from 2021 to 2023?",
      "context_size": 5,
      "timeout": 15
    }
  }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample response:
```
